 Troubleshooting Jekyll build errors for GitHub Pages sites - GitHub Docs Skip to main content 
 GitHub Docs Version: Free, Pro, & Team 
 Search or ask Copilot Search or ask Copilot 
 Select language: current language is English 
 Search or ask Copilot Search or ask Copilot 
 Open menu 
 Collapse sidebar Expand sidebar 
 Scroll breadcrumbs left Home 
 GitHub Pages 
 Set up site with Jekyll 
 Troubleshoot Jekyll errors 
 Scroll breadcrumbs right 
 GitHub Pages 
 Quickstart 
 Get started 
 What is GitHub Pages? 
 Create a GitHub Pages site 
 GitHub Pages limits 
 Use custom workflows 
 Configure publishing source 
 Delete a GitHub Pages site 
 Unpublish Pages site 
 Create custom 404 page 
 Secure site with HTTPS 
 Use submodules with Pages 
 Troubleshoot 404 errors 
 Set up site with Jekyll 
 GitHub Pages & Jekyll 
 Create site with Jekyll 
 Test site locally with Jekyll 
 Add content to Pages site 
 Set Markdown processor 
 Add theme to Pages site 
 Jekyll build errors for Pages 
 Troubleshoot Jekyll errors 
 Configure a custom domain 
 Custom domains in GitHub Pages 
 Manage a custom domain 
 Verify a custom domain 
 Troubleshoot a custom domain 
 Troubleshooting Jekyll build errors for GitHub Pages sites
 You can use Jekyll build error messages to troubleshoot problems with your GitHub Pages site.
 Who can use this feature?
 GitHub Pages is available in public repositories with GitHub Free and GitHub Free for organizations, and in public and private repositories with GitHub Pro, GitHub Team, GitHub Enterprise Cloud, and GitHub Enterprise Server. See GitHub's plans .
 Copy as Markdown 
 In this article
 Troubleshooting build errors 
 Config file error 
 Date is not a valid datetime 
 File does not exist in includes directory 
 File is not properly UTF-8 encoded 
 Invalid highlighter language 
 Invalid post date 
 Invalid Sass or SCSS 
 Invalid submodule 
 Invalid YAML in data file 
 Markdown errors 
 Missing docs folder 
 Missing submodule 
 Relative permalinks configured 
 Syntax error in 'for' loop 
 Tag not properly closed 
 Tag not properly terminated 
 Unknown tag error 
 Troubleshooting build errors 
 If Jekyll encounters an error building your GitHub Pages site locally or on GitHub, you can use error messages to troubleshoot. For more information about error messages and how to view them, see About Jekyll build errors for GitHub Pages sites .
 If you received a generic error message, check for common issues.
 You're using unsupported plugins. For more information, see About GitHub Pages and Jekyll .
 Your repository has exceeded our repository size limits. For more information, see About large files on GitHub 
 You changed the source setting in your _config.yml file. If you publish your site from a branch, GitHub Pages overrides this setting during the build process.
 A filename in your published files contains a colon ( : ) which is not supported.
 If you received a specific error message, review the troubleshooting information for the error message below.
 After you've fixed any errors, trigger another build by pushing the changes to your site's source branch (if you are publishing from a branch) or by triggering your custom GitHub Actions workflow (if you are publishing with GitHub Actions).
 Config file error 
 This error means that your site failed to build because the _config.yml file contains syntax errors.
 To troubleshoot, make sure that your _config.yml file follows these rules:
 Use spaces instead of tabs.
 Include a space after the : for each key value pair, like timezone: Africa/Nairobi .
 Use only UTF-8 characters.
 Quote any special characters, such as : , like title: "my awesome site: an adventure in parse errors" .
 For multi-line values, use | to create newlines and > to ignore newlines.
 To identify any errors, you can copy and paste the contents of your YAML file into a YAML linter, such as YAML Validator .
 Note
If your repository contains symbolic links, you will need to publish your site using a GitHub Actions workflow. For more information about GitHub Actions, see GitHub Actions documentation .
 Date is not a valid datetime 
 This error means that one of the pages on your site includes an invalid datetime.
 To troubleshoot, search the file in the error message and the file's layouts for calls to any date-related Liquid filters. Make sure that any variables passed into date-related Liquid filters have values in all cases and never pass nil or "" . For more information, see Filters in the Liquid documentation.
 File does not exist in includes directory 
 This error means that your code references a file that doesn't exist in your _includes directory.
 To troubleshoot, search the file in the error message for include to see where you've referenced other files, such as {% include example_header.html %} . If any of the files you've referenced aren't in the _includes directory, copy or move the files into the _includes directory.
 File is not properly UTF-8 encoded 
 This error means that you used non-Latin characters, like 日本語 , without telling the computer to expect these symbols.
 To troubleshoot, force UTF-8 encoding by adding the following line to your _config.yml file:
 encoding: UTF-8 
 Invalid highlighter language 
 This error means that you specified any syntax highlighter other than Rouge or Pygments in your configuration file.
 To troubleshoot, update your _config.yml file to specify Rouge or Pygments . For more information, see About GitHub Pages and Jekyll .
 Invalid post date 
 This error means that a post on your site contains an invalid date in the filename or YAML front matter.
 To troubleshoot, make sure all dates are formatted as YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS for UTC and are actual calendar dates. To specify a time zone with an offset from UTC, use the format YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS +/-TTTT, like 2014-04-18 11:30:00 +0800 .
 If you specify a date format in your _config.yml file, make sure the format is correct.
 Invalid Sass or SCSS 
 This error means your repository contains a Sass or SCSS file with invalid content.
 To troubleshoot, review the line number included in the error message for invalid Sass or SCSS. To help prevent future errors, install a Sass or SCSS linter for your favorite text editor.
 Invalid submodule 
 This error means that your repository includes a submodule that hasn't been properly initialized.
 To troubleshoot, first decide if you actually want to use a submodule, which is a Git project inside a Git project; submodules are sometimes created accidentally.
 If you don't want to use a submodule, remove the submodule, replacing PATH-TO-SUBMODULE with the path to the submodule:
 git submodule deinit PATH-TO-SUBMODULE
git rm PATH-TO-SUBMODULE
git commit -m "Remove submodule"
rm -rf .git/modules/PATH-TO-SUBMODULE
 If do you want to use the submodule, make sure you use https:// when referencing the submodule (not http:// ) and that the submodule is in a public repository.
 Invalid YAML in data file 
 This error means that one of more files in the _ data folder contains invalid YAML.
 To troubleshoot, make sure the YAML files in your _ data folder follow these rules:
 Use spaces instead of tabs.
 Include a space after the : for each key value pair, like timezone: Africa/Nairobi .
 Use only UTF-8 characters.
 Quote any special characters, such as : , like title: "my awesome site: an adventure in parse errors" .
 For multi-line values, use | to create newlines and > to ignore newlines.
 To identify any errors, you can copy and paste the contents of your YAML file into a YAML linter, such as YAML Validator .
 For more information about Jekyll data files, see Data Files in the Jekyll documentation.
 Markdown errors 
 This error means that your repository contains Markdown errors.
 To troubleshoot, make sure you are using a supported Markdown processor. For more information, see Setting a Markdown processor for your GitHub Pages site using Jekyll .
 Then, make sure the file in the error message uses valid Markdown syntax. For more information, see Markdown: Syntax on Daring Fireball.
 Missing docs folder 
 This error means that you have chosen the docs folder on a branch as your publishing source, but there is no docs folder in the root of your repository on that branch.
 To troubleshoot, if your docs folder was accidentally moved, try moving the docs folder back to the root of your repository on the branch you chose for your publishing source. If the docs folder was accidentally deleted, you can either:
 Use Git to revert or undo the deletion. For more information, see git-revert in the Git documentation.
 Create a new docs folder in the root of your repository on the branch you chose for your publishing source and add your site's source files to the folder. For more information, see Creating new files .
 Change your publishing source. For more information, see Configuring a publishing source for your GitHub Pages site .
 Missing submodule 
 This error means that your repository includes a submodule that doesn't exist or hasn't been properly initialized.
 To troubleshoot, first decide if you actually want to use a submodule, which is a Git project inside a Git project; submodules are sometimes created accidentally.
 If you don't want to use a submodule, remove the submodule, replacing PATH-TO-SUBMODULE with the path to the submodule:
 git submodule deinit PATH-TO-SUBMODULE
git rm PATH-TO-SUBMODULE
git commit -m "Remove submodule"
rm -rf .git/modules/PATH-TO-SUBMODULE
 If you do want to use a submodule, initialize the submodule. For more information, see Git Tools - Submodules in the Pro Git book.
 Relative permalinks configured 
 This error means that you have relative permalinks, which are not supported by GitHub Pages, in your _config.yml file.
 Permalinks are permanent URLs that reference a particular page on your site. Absolute permalinks begin with the root of the site, while relative permalinks begin with the folder containing the referenced page. GitHub Pages and Jekyll no longer support relative permalinks. For more information about permalinks, see Permalinks in the Jekyll documentation.
 To troubleshoot, remove the relative_permalinks line from your _config.yml file and reformat any relative permalinks in your site with absolute permalinks. For more information, see Editing files .
 Syntax error in 'for' loop 
 This error means that your code includes invalid syntax in a Liquid for loop declaration.
 To troubleshoot, make sure all for loops in the file in the error message have proper syntax. For more information about proper syntax for for loops, see Tags in the Liquid documentation.
 Tag not properly closed 
 This error message means that your code includes a logic tag that is not properly closed. For example, {% capture example_variable %} must be closed by {% endcapture %} .
 To troubleshoot, make sure all logic tags in the file in the error message are properly closed. For more information, see Tags in the Liquid documentation.
 Tag not properly terminated 
 This error means that your code includes an output tag that is not properly terminated. For example, {{ page.title } instead of {{ page.title }} .
 To troubleshoot, make sure all output tags in the file in the error message are terminated with }} . For more information, see Objects in the Liquid documentation.
 Unknown tag error 
 This error means that your code contains an unrecognized Liquid tag.
 To troubleshoot, make sure all Liquid tags in the file in the error message match Jekyll's default variables and there are no typos in the tag names. For a list of default variables, see Variables in the Jekyll documentation.
 Unsupported plugins are a common source of unrecognized tags. If you use an unsupported plugin in your site by generating your site locally and pushing your static files to GitHub, make sure the plugin is not introducing tags that are not in Jekyll's default variables. For a list of supported plugins, see About GitHub Pages and Jekyll .
 Help and support
 Did you find what you needed?
 Yes No 
 Privacy policy Help us make these docs great!
 All GitHub docs are open source. See something that's wrong or unclear? Submit a pull request.
 Make a contribution Learn how to contribute 
 Still need help?
 Ask the GitHub community 
 Contact support 
 Legal
 © 2026 GitHub, Inc.
 Terms 
 Privacy 
 Status 
 Pricing 
 Expert services 
 Blog 
 